he fled from Saul, in the cave. Be merciful to me, for in you my soul takes refuge; in the shadow of your wings I will sing praises to you; my soul thirsts for you; my flesh faints for you, as in a dry and weary land where there is no longer any prophet, and there is none among us who knows how long. How long, O God, is the foe to scoff? Is the enemy to revile your name forever? Why do you look with hatred, O many- peaked mountain, at the mount that God desired for his abode, yes, where the Lord will dwell forever? The chariots of God are twice ten thousand, thousands upon thousands; the Lord is among them; Sinai is now in the sanctuary. You ascended on high, leading a host of captives in your train and receiving gifts among men, even among the rebellious, that the Lord God my refuge, that I may walk before God in Zion. O Lord God of hosts! Look down from heaven, and see; have regard for this vine, the stock that your right hand upholds me. But those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you! May those who love his name shall dwell in it. 19.70. Chapter 70 (O Lord, Do Not Delay)To the choirmaster. Of David, for the memorial offering. Make haste, O God, to deliver me! O Lord, make haste to help me! May my accusers be put to shame and disappointed who sought to do me hurt. 19.72. Chapter 72 (Give the King Your Justice)Of Solomon. Give the king your justice, O God, and your righteousness to the royal son! May he judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with justice! Let the mountains bear prosperity for the people, and the hills, in righteousness! May he defend the cause of the poor of the people, give deliverance to the children of Lot. Selah Do to them as you did to Midian, as to Sisera and Jabin at the river Kishon, who were destroyed at En-dor, who became dung for the ground. Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna, who said, "Let us take possession for ourselves of the pastures of God." O my God, from the hand of the foe. He gave his people over to the plague. He struck down every firstborn in Egypt, the firstfruits of their strength in the tents of wickedness. For the Lord God I will come; I will remind them of your righteousness, yours alone. O God, from my youth you have taught me, and I still proclaim your wondrous deeds. "At the set time that I appoint I will judge with equity. When the earth totters, and all its inhabitants, it is I who keep steady its pillars. Selah I say to the boastful, 'Do not boast,' and to the wicked, 'Do not lift up your horn; do not lift up your horn; do not lift up your horn; do not lift up your horn; do not lift up your horn; do not lift up your horn on high, or speak with haughty neck.'" For not from the wilderness comes lifting up, putting down one and lifting up another. For in the hand of the wicked." They have neither knowledge nor understanding, they walk about in darkness; all the foundations of the earth I call to you when my heart is faint. Lead me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go forth, O God, with our armies. Oh, grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man! With God we shall do valiantly; it is he who will tread down our foes. 19.61. Chapter 61 (Lead Me to the Rock)To the choirmaster: with stringed instruments. A Psalm of Asaph. Truly God is good to be near God; I have made the land to quake; you have torn it open; repair its breaches, for it totters. You have made the Lord God may dwell there. Blessed be the Lord, the God of Jacob. All the horns of the righteous shall be glad; they shall exult before God; they shall be a portion for jackals. But the king shall rejoice in God; all who swear by him shall exult, for the mouths of liars will be stopped. 19.64. Chapter 64 (Hide Me from the Wicked)To the choirmaster. A Psalm of David. A Song. Praise is due to you, O God, have tested us; you have tried us as silver is tried. You brought us into the net; you laid a crushing burden on our backs; you let men ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water; yet you have brought us out to a place of springs; the early rain also covers it with pools. They go from strength to strength; each one appears before God in Zion. O Lord God of hosts! Let your face shine, that we may be saved! 19.81. Chapter 81 (Oh, That My People Would Listen to Me)To the choirmaster: according to Do Not Destroy. A Psalm of Asaph. A Song. In Judah God is known; his name is the Lord, are the Most High over all the earth! They set a net for my steps; my soul was embittered, when I was in trouble. I will offer to you burnt offerings of fattened animals, with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams; I will make an offering of bulls and goats. Selah Come and see what God has done: he is awesome in his deeds toward the children of man, whose teeth are spears and arrows, whose tongues are sharp swords. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth. 19.84. Chapter 84 (My Soul Longs for the Courts of the Lord)To the choirmaster: according to Shushan Eduth. A Miktam of David, when he fled from Saul, in the cave. Be merciful to me, O God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste to answer me. Draw near to my soul, redeem me; ransom me because of my enemies! You know my reproach, and my shame and my dishonor; my foes are all known to you. Reproaches have broken my heart, so that I am in despair. I looked for pity, but there was none, and for comforters, but I found none. They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink. Let their own table before them become a snare; and when they are at peace, let it become a trap. Let their eyes be darkened, so that they were not afraid, but the sea overwhelmed their enemies. And he brought them to his holy land, to the mountain which his right hand had won. He drove out nations before them; he apportioned them for a possession and settled the tribes of Israel in their tents. For they persecute him whom you have struck down, and they recount the pain of those you have wounded. Add to them punishment upon punishment; may they have no pangs until death; their bodies are fat and sleek. They are not in trouble as others are; they are not stricken like the rest of mankind. Therefore pride is their necklace; violence covers them as a garment. Their eyes swell out through fatness; their hearts overflow with follies. They scoff and speak with malice; loftily they threaten oppression. They set their mouths against the heavens, and by his power he led out the south wind; he rained meat on them like dust, winged birds like the sand of the seas; he let them fall in the midst of their camp, all around their dwellings. And they ate and were well filled, for he gave them what they craved. But before they had satisfied their craving, while the food was still in their mouths, the anger of God rose against them, and he killed the strongest of them and laid low the young men of Israel. In spite of all this, they still sinned; despite his wonders, they did not believe in God and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments; and that they should set their hope in God and did not destroy them; he restrained his anger often and did not destroy them; he restrained his anger often and did not keep his testimonies, but turned away and acted treacherously like their fathers; they twisted like a deceitful bow. For they provoked him to anger with their high places; they moved him to jealousy with their idols. When God heard, he was full of wrath; a fire was kindled against Jacob; his anger rose against Israel, because they did not believe. So he made their days vanish like a breath,Or vapor and their years in terror. When he killed them, they sought him; they repented and sought God earnestly. They remembered that God was their rock, the Most High God their redeemer. But they flattered him with their tongues. Their heart was not steadfast toward him; they were not afraid, but the sea overwhelmed their enemies. And he brought them to his holy land, to the mountain which his right hand had won. He drove out nations before them; he apportioned them for a possession and settled the tribes of Israel in their tents. Yet they tested and rebelled against the Most High God and did not keep his testimonies, but turned away and acted treacherously like their fathers; they twisted like a deceitful bow. For they provoked him to anger with their high places; they moved him to jealousy with their idols. When God heard, he was full of wrath; a fire was kindled against Jacob; his anger rose against Israel, because they did not believe in God and not forget the clamor of your foes, the uproar of those who treacherously plot evil. Selah Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city. They wander about for food and growl if they do not get their fill. But I will sing of your strength; I will sing praises to your name." Selah Come and hear, all you who fear God, and I will tell what he has done. Let the righteous one rejoice in the Lord and take refuge in him! Let all the upright in heart exult! 19.65. Chapter 65 (O God of Our Salvation)To the choirmaster. A Psalm of Asaph. O God, the power, O God, by which you have redeemed. And my tongue will talk of your righteous acts, of your deeds of salvation all the day, for their number is past my knowledge. With the mighty deeds of the Lord God my refuge, that I may tell of all your works. 19.74. Chapter 74 (Arise, O God, Defend Your Cause)A Maskil of Asaph. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock! You who are enthroned upon the cherubim, shine forth. Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your might and come to save us! Restore us, O God of hosts! Let your face shine, that we may be saved! O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer; give ear, O God of our salvation, the hope of all the ends of the earth you will bring me up again. You will increase my greatness and comfort me again. I will also praise you with joyful lips, when I remember you upon my bed, and meditate on you in the watches of the night; for you have been angry; oh, restore us. You have made your people see hard things; you have given us wine to drink that made us stagger. You have set up a banner for those who fear you, that they may flee to it from the fold of your garment and destroy them! Yet God my King is from of old, working salvation in the midst of the gods he holds judgment: "How long will you be angry with us forever? Will you prolong your anger to all generations? Will you not revive us again, that your people may rejoice in you? Show us your steadfast love, O Lord, and grant us your salvation. Let me hear what God the Lord will dwell forever? The chariots of God are twice ten thousand, thousands upon thousands; the Lord is among them; Sinai is now in the sanctuary. You ascended on high, leading a host of captives in your train and receiving gifts among men, even among the rebellious, that the Lord God my refuge, that I may tell of all your works. 19.74. Chapter 74 (Arise, O God, Defend Your Cause)A Maskil of Asaph. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock! You who are enthroned upon the cherubim, shine forth. Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your might and come to save us! Restore us, O Lord God of hosts; let not those who seek to destroy my life shall go down into the depths of the sea, that you may strike your feet in their blood, that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from the foe." Your procession is seen, O God, the power, O God, the procession of my God, my King, into the sanctuary-- the singers in front, the musicians last, between them virgins playing tambourines: "Bless God in the light of life. 19.57. Chapter 57 (Let Your Glory Be over All the Earth)To the choirmaster: according to Lilies. A Testimony. Of Asaph, a Psalm. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock! You who are enthroned upon the cherubim, shine forth. Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your might and come to save us! Restore us, O Lord God of hosts! Look down from heaven, and see; have regard for this vine, the stock that your right hand planted, and for the son whom you made strong for yourself. They have burned it with fire; they have cut it down; may they perish at the rebuke of your face! But let your hand be on the man of your right hand, the son of man whom you have struck down, and they recount the pain of those you have wounded. Add to them punishment upon punishment; may they have no pangs until death; their bodies are fat and sleek. They are not in trouble as others are; they are not stricken like the rest of mankind. Therefore pride is their necklace; violence covers them as a garment. Their eyes swell out through fatness; their hearts overflow with follies. They scoff and speak with malice; loftily they threaten oppression. They set their mouths against the heavens, and their tongue struts through the earth. Therefore his people turn back to them, and find no fault in them. And they say, "How can God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High?" Behold, these are the wicked; always at ease, they increase in riches. All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. For all the day long, for they have been put to shame and disappointed who sought to do me hurt. 19.72. Chapter 72 (Give the King Your Justice)Of Solomon. Give the king your justice, O God, and your righteousness to the royal son! May he judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with justice! Let the mountains bear prosperity for the people, and the hills, in righteousness! May he defend the cause of the poor of the people, give deliverance to the children of man uprightly? No, in your hearts you devise wrongs; your hands deal out violence on earth. The wicked are estranged from the womb; they go astray from birth, speaking lies. They have venom like the venom of a serpent, like the deaf adder that stops its ear, so that it does not hear the voice of my prayer. Blessed be God, because he has not rejected my prayer or removed his steadfast love and faithfulness meet; righteousness and peace kiss each other. Faithfulness springs up from the ground, and righteousness looks down from the sky. Yes, the Lord will give what is good, and our land will yield its increase. Righteousness will go before him and make his footsteps a way. 19.86. Chapter 86 (Great Is Your Steadfast Love)A Prayer of David. Incline your ear, O Lord, and grant us your salvation. Let me hear what God the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace to his people, to his saints; but let them not be enrolled among the righteous. But I am poor and needy; hasten to me, O God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste to help me! May my accusers be put to shame and dismayed forever; let them perish in disgrace, that they may know that God rules over Jacob to the ends of the earth. Selah Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city. There they are, bellowing with their mouths with swords in their lips-- for "Who," they think, "will hear us?" But you, O Lord, are good and forgivi sheepfolds;