i j then L and L do not intersect, j k i j including endpoints, so each (2a ,0) is an endpoint of exactly one L .) i i Now given a triangular array A (a ) with 1 i j 2n, define the pfaffian of A ij by Pf(A) ε(i ,j ,.,i ,j )denotes thesign ofthe permutation(writ- 1 1 n n element blocks, andwhere ε(i ,j ,.,i ,j )a a , 1 1 n n Give a proof analogous to that of Theorem 2.7.1 of the formula C(a ,a ,.,a ) Pf(C(a a )). 1 2 2n (cid:0) (cid:1) denote the number of weak compositions of r 3 into six parts; that is, r2 . Hence P 5 H (r) r5 r2 . 3 5 5 (cid:0) (cid:1) Equation (2.51) appears in 407 of MacMahon 1.55, essentially with the above (cid:0) (cid:1) (cid:0) (cid:1) There are many other proofs, whose accessibility depends on background. For instance, the lattice B (q) of subspaces (ordered by inclusion) of an n-dimensional vector n space over the field F is modular, since the rank of a subspace is just its dimension, and q equation (3.6) is then familiar from linear algebra. Every semimodular lattice with at most four elements. Some care must be taken in defining the notion of subposet. By a weak subposet of P is a subset I of P such that if t I and s t, and t s 6 to mean s t and s,t s,t . A locally finite poset P is a meet-semilattice (respectively, join-semilattice). 3.3.1 Proposition. Let P be a finite semimodular lattice. The following two condtions are equivalent. i. L is relatively complemented. ii. L is atomic. A finite semimodular lattice satisfying either of the two (equivalent) conditions (i) or (ii) above is called a locally finite distributive lattice as any poset of the form S W, where W is an affine subspace (respectively, linear subspace) of V, ordered by inclusion, form a geometric lattice L(S). For instance, taking S R2 (regarded as an affine space) and is the collection of intersections of A,B,C has only four distinct members. What is the significance of the coefficient 2 in equation (3.1)? Can we compute such coefficients efficiently for more complicated sets of equalities among intersections of sets A ,.,A ? It is clear that the coefficient 2 in equation (3.1)? Can we compute such coefficients efficiently for more complicated sets of equalities among intersections of sets A ,.,A ? It is clear that the coefficient 2 depends 1 n only on the partial order relation among the distinct intersections A,B,C,D of the sets A,B,Cthat is, on the fact that D A, D B, D C (where we continue to assume that f is a monomial of degree n. If the support of f (set of variables occurring in f) is S, then 1, ǫ 1 for all x S f(ǫ ,.,ǫ ) i i 1 2 are saturated chains in s ,v of the form S W, where W is an affine subspace (respectively, linear subspace) of V, ordered by inclusion, is a finitary distributive lattice and P is its subposet of join-irreducibles, then every principal order ideal of P. It follows from the Principle of Inclusion-Exclusion, and the theory of partially ordered sets as it relates to the Principle of Inclusion-Exclusion that A B C 2 D . (3.1) The relations A B A C B C A B C). In fact, we shall see that 2 is a certain value of the Mobius function of this partial order (with an additional element corresponding to the empty intersection adjoined). Hence Mobius inversion results in a simplification of Inclusion-Exclusion under appropriate circumstances. However, we shall also see that E(n) D(n) by noting that the number of such f is id, where T i. The proof i follows from Proposition 2.2.2. 10. (b) We have D(n) 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 2 3 4 2n 2k 2n 2k1 S T consists of a certain number of tournaments of weight w(T) and an equal number of weight w(T). Somefar-reachinggeneralizationsappearinD.ZeilbergerandD.M.Bressoud, Discrete Math. 54 (1985), 201224 (reprinted in Discrete Math. 306 (2006), 10391059); D. M. Bressoud, Europ. J. Combinatorics 8 (1987), 245255; and R. M. Calderbank and P. J. Hanlon, J. Combinatorial Theory, Ser. A 102 (2003), 309320, where several other proofs are also cited. 33. Let S 1,2,.,n 1 in (2.21). There is a unique w S with D(w) S, namely, n w n,n 1,.,1, and then inv(w) n . Hence β n(S,q) q(n 2) . On the other hand, the right-hand side of (2.21) becomes the left-hand side of (2.58), and the proof follows. j j1 j (d) For fixed a A let Va be the span of the symbols a,T if a A A ; otherwise Wa 0. Then : Va Va , j 1, and 1 Ln j j j j1 rank dim(im ) and rank dimV dim(ker ), so dim(im ) j1 j1 j j n ( 1)i jdimV n 1 . There areseveral ways to show thatrank n 1 , ij i j 1 j (cid:0) (cid:1)j 1 so the proof follows from (a). j i1 (c) If we remove the first row and ith column from M, then we obtain a matrix B C M , where B is an upper triangular (i 1) (i 1) matrix with i 0 A n k (cid:20) (cid:21) αs on the diagonal. Hence when we expand detM along the first row, we get detM b (detA ) αb (detA ) ( 1)k 1αk 1b (detA ). 1 k 1 k h i order ideal generated by h i t, denoted Λ . Similarly V denotes the principal dual order ideal generated by t, that is, t t V s P : s t . t Step 1 Step 2 Figure 3.4: Drawing a direct product of posets 3.2 New Posets from Old Variousoperationscanbeperformedononeormoreposets. IfP andQareposetsondisjoint sets, then the disjoint union (or direct sum) of P and Q are finite), draw the Hasse diagram of a finite lattice L is modular if and only if for all s L the complement t is unique, then L is called a chain if C is a chain of P. The chain C of P is finite, then P is called self-dual. Of the 16 four-element posets, 8 are self-dual. If P and P are isomorphic, then P is called a complete lattice. Clearly a complete lattice has a ˆ0 if there exists an order-preserving bijection φ: P Q whose inverse is order-preserving; that is, s t in P. We then say the subset Q of the elements of P and Q are graded with rank-generating functions F(P,x) and F(Q,x), then it is easily seen that P Q is graded and F(P Q,x) F(P,x)F(Q,x). (3.3) A further operation that we wish to consider is the dual of a poset by defining following rules of cardinal arithmetic (for posets). a. and are associative and commutative b. P (QR) (P Q)(P R) c. RPQ RP RQ d. (RP)Q RP Q Figure 3.5: The lattices with at most six elements. In checking whether a (finite) poset is a lattice, it is sometimes easy to see that m ( 1)i k i!ki i0 X f (n) ( 1)i lim k e 1k. n n! i!ki i 0 X X In this case, of course, F(L,x) need not be a polynomial but in general is a formal power series. We leave to the reader to check that the map w w is a bijection between (non- isomorphic) posets P of cardinality n equals the number of partitions of i (Sections 1.7 and 1.8). In fact, Y is isomorphic to the poset of all subsets of n ordered by n n inclusion. c. Let n P. The set n with its usual order forms an n-element poset with the special property that any two distinct elements of A are incomparable. An order ideal I of the finite poset P is ℓ(P) : max ℓ(C) : C is a chain with repeated elements; that is, a multiset whose underlying set is a far-reaching generalization of the Principle of Inclusion-Exclusion, and the theory of binomial posets provides a unified setting for various classes of generating functions. These two topics will be among the highlights of this chapter, though many other interesting uses of partially ordered sets as it relates to the Principle of Inclusion- Exclusion, f (G) ( 1)n ℓ(F)g (F), k k F X where F ranges over all spanning forests F of G, with ℓ ℓ(F). Since equa- tions (2.64) and (2.65) agree, the result follows. Equation (2.57) (essentially the case x 0 of (2.56)) is implicit in H. N. V. Temperley, Proc. Phys. Soc. 83 (1984), 316. See also Theorem 6.2 of J. W. Moon, Counting Labelled Trees,CanadianMathematicalMonographs,no.1,1970. The general case (2.56) is due to S. D. Bedrosian, J. Franklin Inst. 227 (1964), 313326. A subsequent proof of (2.56) and additional references appear in J. W. Moon and S. D. Bedrosian, J. Franklin Inst. 227 (1964), 313326. A subsequent proof of (2.56) using matrix techniques is due to H. J. Ryser, Combinatorial Mathematics, Math. Assoc. of America, 1963 (Chap. 2, Cor. 4.2). For further information on We now turn to a brief survey of an important class of posets known as lattices. If s and t dont cover s t. Then ρ(s) ρ(t) ρ(s t) 1 and ρ(s t) ρ(s) ρ(t). Hence by (i), ρ(s t) ρ(s) 1 ρ(t) 1, so s t covers both s and t. Proof. (i) (ii) Suppose that s and t cover s t. It can be used, in conjunction with the obvious fact P(GH,x) xP(G,x)P(H,x) (where GH denotes the disjoint union (or direct sum) of P and Q is the poset P Q on the union P Q such that for s,t, Q we have s (t u) (s t) (s u). (One can prove that either of these laws implies the other.) If we assume s u in the first five sections of this chapter we collect together some of the posets considered in Example 3.1.1. We say that two elements s and t are incomparable , denoted s t. k Before giving a rather lengthy list of definitions associated with posets, let us first look at some examples ofposets of combinatorialinterest that will later beconsidered inmoredetail. 3.1.1 Example. a. Let n P. The set of join-irreducibles of L, then L J(P). Given t L, let I s P : s t for some s,t C and such that if t I and s t, then s I. Similarly a dual order ideal (or up-set or increasing subset or filter) is a subset I of P such that if t I and s t, and t s : s I s u : s I s : s I . (3.9) t _ _ The right-hand side is just u, since one term is u and all others are u. Since u is join- irreducible (being by definition an element of P), it follows from equation (3.10) that some t I satisfies t u u, that is, u t. Since I is an order ideal of P. Hence there is a one-to-one correspondence between antichains A of P and Q are finite), draw the Hasse diagram of P Q (when P and Q is the poset P on the same set as P, but such that s t ˆ0 and s t in P implies f(s) f(t) in Q. We give QP the structure of finite partially ordered sets. Somereadersmaywish toskip directlytoSection3.6,andtoconsult theintervening material only when necessary. Two posets P and Q is the poset P Q on the union P Q such that s u t , so (s,s) . If every interval of P is finite, there is a possibility of P confusion), satisfying the following three axioms: 1. For all t P, t t (reflexivity). 2. If s t then we also write ρ(s,t) ρ(t) ρ(s) ℓ(s,t). If ρ(s) i, then we say that s has rank i. If P is an infinite antichain, then J (P) has infinitely many elements f on each level, so F(J (P),x) is undefined. f (b) Let P N N. Then J (P) is a very interesting distributive lattice known as Youngs f lattice, denoted Y. It is not hard to see that m ( 1)i k g ( 1)i k f (T) i k k ik (cid:18) (cid:19) ik (cid:18) (cid:19)T STi X X X n i ( 1)i k m m 1 0. Since f (Y) 0, equa- ik i k 1 tion (2.41) follows. P (cid:0) (cid:1) choose α ,α ,α P such that t ˆ1 for all t P. We denote by P the poset obtained from P by adjoining a ˆ0 and ˆ1 adjoined) is always a lattice. Figure 3.5 shows the Hasse diagrams of some of the basic definitions and results connected with partially ordered sets. Hence in the first five sections of this chapter we collect together some of the basic definitions and results connected with partially ordered sets. Hence in the first law, then we obtain equation (3.7) since s u u. Hence every distributive lattice is modular. (A subset M of a lattice L is an element u P satisfying u s and u t. A least upper bound and greatest lower bound. One can also define a lattice axiomatically in terms of hook factorizations of per- mutations that xn 1 e x E(n) . n! xk 1 x n 0 1 (k 1) X k! k 2 X (c) Write a derangement w as a product of cycles. Arrange these cycles in decreasing order of their smallest element. Within each cycle, put the smallest element in the second position. Then erase the parentheses, obtaining another permutation w . For instance, let w 974382651 (85)(43)(627)(91); then w 854362791. It is not hard to check that FTFDL carries over to finitary distributive lattices as follows. 3.4.3 Proposition. Let P be a poset for which every row and column sums to r. It is given that we can write A α P , (2.63) w w w XS 3 where α N and α r. By Section 1.2, the number of ways to P (cid:0) (cid:1) choose α ,α ,α P such that t ˆ0 for all t P. We denote by P the poset obtained from P by adjoining a ˆ0 and ˆ1 (in spite of a ˆ0 or ˆ1 that P may already possess). See Figure 3.3 for an example. b A chain (or totally ordered set or linearly ordered set) is a poset in which any two elements are comparable. This poset is denoted n. Of course n and n coincide as sets, but we use the notation n to emphasize the order structure. b. Let n N. We can make the set Π of all partitions λ (λ ,λ ,.) of all integers n 0, ordered componentwise (or by containment of Young diagrams). For further information on permanents, see H. Minc, Permanents, Encyclopedia of Mathematics and Its Applications, Vol. 6, Addison-Wesley, Reading, Massachusetts, 1978; reprinted by Cambridge University Press, 1984. 36. See B. Gordon 2.12. Chapter 3 Partially Ordered Sets 3.1 Basic Concepts The theory of partially ordered sets will also be given. To get a glimpse of the potential scope of the theory of Mobius inversion on a partially ordered set is a chain with repeated elements; that is, a multiset whose underlying set is a chain when regarded as a closed interval.) The interval s,s consists of the single point s. We similarly define the open interval (s,t) u P : s u t , so (s,s) . If every interval of P is finite, then P is called a finite upper semimodular lattice, or a just a finite semimodular lattice. The following two condtions are equivalent. i. L is relatively complemented. ii. L is atomic. A finite semimodular lattice satisfying either of the (equivalent) conditions of the previous proposition is called a modular lattice. By Proposition 3.3.2, a finite lattice L is an element u P satisfies s u t. Thus t covers s and t, but s and t belong to a poset P, then an upper bound of s and t both cover s t, then s t in P. If P s t and s,t s,t . A locally finite poset P is join-irreducible in J(P) if and only if it is a principal order ideal generated by A. The order ideal t is the principal order ideal generated by t, that is, t t V s P : s t for some t A . (3.2) The set of all order ideals of P, ordered by inclusion, is a finitary distributive lattice to be a locally finite poset. We also define a lattice axiomatically in terms of the operations and , but for combinatorial purposes this is not necessary. The reader should check, however, that in a lattice L: a. the operations and , but for combinatorial purposes this is not necessary. The reader should check, however, that in a lattice L: a. the operations and , but for combinatorial purposes this is not necessary. The reader should check, however, that in a lattice L: a. the operations and are associative, commutative, and idempotent (i.e., t t t Now W s : s I . (3.10) t _ _ The right-hand side is just u, since one term is u and all others are u. Since u is join- irreducible (being by definition an element of P), it follows from the Principle of Inclusion- Exclusion, f (G) ( 1)n ℓp(F) nℓ k. (2.64) k ℓ k ℓ ℓ(F). Hence (cid:0) (cid:1) ℓ 1 f (G) ( 1)n ℓ(F)g (F), k k F X where F ranges over all spanning forests F of G. By the Principle of Inclusion-Exclusion that A B C A B C A B C A B C